

#AWS Overview

AWS offers a broad set of services that help you move faster, lower your costs, and scale your applications. The following documentation provides a high-level overview of the concepts that you should understand before you get started with AWS.

##Regions and Availability Zones

Amazon has data centers in different areas of the world (for example, North America, Europe, and Asia). Correspondingly, AWS products are available to use in different regions. By placing resources in separate regions, you can design your website or app to be closer to specific customers or to meet legal or other requirements. Note that prices for AWS usage vary by region.

Each region contains multiple distinct locations called *Availability Zones*. Each Availability Zone is engineered to be isolated from failures in other Availability Zones, and to provide inexpensive, low-latency network connectivity to other zones in the same region. By placing resources in separate Availability Zones, you can protect your website or app from the failure of a single location.

AWS resources can be tied to a region or tied to an Availability Zone. Not every region or Availability Zone supports every AWS resource. When you view your resources, you'll only see the resources tied to the region you've specified. This is because regions are isolated from each other, and we don't replicate resources across regions automatically.

----

##Security

AWS provides a secure global infrastructure, plus a range of features that you can use to secure your data in the cloud. The following are highlights:
- Physical access to AWS data centers is strictly controlled, monitored, and audited.
- Access to the AWS network is strictly controlled, monitored, and audited.
- You can manage the security credentials that enable users to access your AWS account using *AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)*. You can create fine-grained permissions to AWS resources and apply them to users or groups of users.
- You can apply ACL-type permissions on your data and can also use encryption of data at rest.
- You can set up a virtual private cloud (VPC), which is a virtual network that is logically isolated from other virtual networks in the AWS cloud. You can control whether the network is directly routable to the Internet.
- You control and configure the operating system on your virtual server.
- You can set up a security group, which acts as a virtual firewall to control the inbound and outbound traffic for your virtual servers.
- You can specify a key pair when you launch your virtual server, which is used to encrypt your login information. When you log in to your virtual server, you must present the private key of the key pair to decrypt the login information.

----

##Compute and Networking Services for AWS

AWS provides a variety of computing and networking services to meet the needs of your applications. You can provision virtual servers, set up a firewall, configure Internet access, allocate and route IP addresses, and scale your infrastructure to meet increasing demand.

You can use the compute and networking services with the storage, database, and application services to provide a complete solution for computing, query processing, and storage across a wide range of applications.



****

#AWS EC2

##Setting up with Amazon EC2

1. Sign up for AWS
1. Create an IAM User

    Services in AWS, such as Amazon EC2, require that you provide *credentials* when you access them, so that the service can determine whether you have permission to access its resources. The console requires your password. You can create access keys for your AWS account to access the command line interface or API. However, **we don't recommend that you access AWS using the credentials for your AWS account**; we recommend that you use *AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)* instead. Create an IAM user, and then add the user to an IAM group with administrative permissions or and grant this user administrative permissions. You can then access AWS using a special URL and the credentials for the IAM user.

1. Create a Key Pair

    AWS uses *public-key cryptography* to secure the login information for your instance. A Linux instance has no password; you use a key pair to log in to your instance securely. You specify *the name of the key pair* when you launch your instance, then provide *the private key* when you log in using SSH.

1. Create a Virtual Private Cloud

    Amazon VPC enables you to launch AWS resources into a virtual network that you've defined.

1. Create a Security Group

    Security groups act as a firewall for associated instances, controlling both inbound and outbound traffic at the instance level. 

****

##Getting Started with Amazon EC2 Linux Instances

The instance is an Amazon EBS-backed instance (meaning that the root volume is an Amazon EBS volume). We'll also create and attach an additional Amazon EBS volume. You can either specify the Availability Zone in which to launch your instance, or let us select an Availability Zone for you. When you launch your instance, you secure it by **specifying a key pair and security group**. (You created these when getting set up.) When you connect to your instance, you must specify the private key of the key pair that you specified when launching your instance.


###Launch an Instance

----

###Connect to Your Instance

[Connect to your instance](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-connect-to-instance-linux.html)

----

###Add a Volume to Your Instance

`df -h`: This command can be used to view tis mounted volumes.

If you need additional storage for your data, a simple solution is to add Amazon EBS volumes to your instance. An Amazon EBS volume serves as network-attached storage for your instance. Let's add a volume to the Linux instance that you've launched. First we'll use the EC2 console to create the volume and attach it to the instance, and then we'll mount the volume to make it available.

----

###Clean up your instance and Volume

After you've finished with the instance and the Amazon EBS volume that you created for this tutorial, you should clean up. First, terminate the instance, which detaches the volume from the instance, and then delete the volume.

****

##Best Practices for Amazon EC2

1. Security and Network
1. Storage
1. Resource Management 
1. Backup and Recovery

****

##Tutorial: Installing a LAMP Web Server

The following procedures help you install *the Apache web server with Python and MySQL support on your Amazon EC2 instance (sometimes called a LAMP web server or LAMP stack)*. You can use this server to host a static website or deploy a dynamic PHP application that reads and writes information to a database.

1. To install and start the LAMP web server

    1. connect to your instance
    1. `sudo yum update -y` || `apt-get update\n apt-get -u upgrade`
    1. sudo apt-get install apache

1. MySQL database
    1. sudo apt-get install mysql-server libapache2-mod-auth-mysql

        > libapache2-mod-auth-mysql: a module for the Apache 2 web server which enables HTTP authentication against information stored in a MySQL database.

    1. sudo mysql_install_db
    1. sudo /usr/bin/mysql_secure_installation
    1. sudo apt-get install python-mysqldb

OR

1. PostgreSQL database

    [postgresql-setup](http://www.stuartellis.eu/articles/postgresql-setup/)
    1. sudo apt-get install python-psycopg2 
    1. sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib
    1. sudo -u postgres psql
    1. ALTER USER postgres WITH PASSWORD 'mypassword';

1. Python and django

    1. sudo apt-get install python
    1. sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-python
    1. sudo wget https://bootstrap.pypa.io/ez_setup.py -O - | python
    1. git clone [django](https://github.com/django/django.git)
    1. cd ./django/
    1. sudo python setup.py install

OR

    1. sudo apt-get install python
    1. sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-python
    1. sudo wget https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -O - | python
    1. pip install Django==1.2

----

###Configuring Apache
[Configure Apache](http://blog.madspace.me/configure-python-django-with-apache/)

1. needs a wsgi configuration file to run in Apache

    `vim /var/www/<my-project-name>/django.wsgi`
    > wsgi, the Web Server Gateway Interface, is a specification for simple and universal interface between *web server* and *web applications or frameworks for the  Python programming language [wsgi_wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Server_Gateway_Interface).

        In details, the directory added to sys.path would be the directory containing the package for package for the django site crated by running`django-admin.py startproject mysite`

1. mod-wsgi adapter to configure Django in Apache install wsgi lib like below.

    1. sudo apt-get install libapache2-mod-wsgi
    1. sudo a2enmod wsgi

1. add a virtual host in apache after installing mod-wsgi

    vim /etc/apache2/site-availables/django.conf

    [DJango on Apache_pogames](http://fight.pcgames.com.cn/warcraft/dota/zs/0907/1509299_all.html)
    [Django on Apache_madspace](http://blog.madspace.me/configure-python-django-with-apache)
    [Django on Apache_django](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.4/howto/deployment/wsgi/modwsgi/)
    [Django1.3.1 インスト`ル+テスト](https://gist.github.com/makotoworld/1437054)
    [*Django on Apache_modwsgi*](https://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/wiki/QuickConfigurationGuide#Delegation_To_Daemon_Process)
    [*Django on Apache_cnblogs*](http://www.cnblogs.com/restran/archive/2011/12/28/2305307.html)
----

###Configuring PostgreSQL


添加用户
1. `sudo adduser dbuser`
1. CREATE USER dbuser WITH PASSWORD 'password'; 

OR
1. `sudo -u postgres createuser --superuser dbuser`
1. `sudo -u postgres psql`
1. \password dbuser

创建数据库
1. CREATE DATABASE exampledb OWNER dbuser; 
1. GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE exampledb to dbuser;

----

###Configuring django







